So, let's take a closer look at
the Amazon Redshift corner stone product of Amazon in our data warehouse.
For liquid that technology,
we are aware a little bit of the idea of columnar storage or column-oriented storage.
Basically, the idea is we have the ability of picking
one column and doing one aggregation operation on it.
Of course, that is very nice because sometimes,
that could be a big fact.
They will lose lots and lots of columns and when we try to add one column,
we don't want actually to look from the other columns.
So, that actually works out as a very nice performance boost.
Actually, internally, Redshift is a postgres SQL with
modified extensions for custom columnar storage.
So, let's take a closer look at Amazon Redshift.
To be able to explain this,
we need to explain the concurrency that would happen in normalization databases.
So, most relational databases,
they execute multiple queries in parallel if they have access to many cores or servers.
Actually, one can have a database server on one machine or can have a database cluster.
But if you have a database cluster for most of the normal SQL or RDBMS,
you will find that every query,
you can have many queries at the same time but each query,
each single query, actually runs on one CPU.
So, if at a point in time,
I have one query running,
it doesn't matter how many CPUs do I have,
because I am always going to run it on one CPU.
However, if I have lots of concurrent users running those queries,
I can schedule those ones on
the CPUs and that's actually very nice for OLTP because indeed,
we have lots of concurrent users and each query on itself is not that long.
It doesn't do something major.
It's either like an update or a few rows retrieved.
So, that's actually well suited for OLTP.
But then, we have the other, I would say,
like species of databases which is
the massively parallel processing databases or MPP databases.
The idea of the MPP databases is that they parallelize the execution
of a single query on multiple CPUs or I mean,
those CPUs that naturally could be on multiple machines as well.
The idea is that tables in those MPP databases,
one table would be actually partitioned into smaller partitions and
distributed across those CPUs
where actually each CPU would also have its associated storage.
So, when one query comes,
that query can process this whole table in parallel where
each CPU would be basically crunching one partition of the data.
So, Amazon Redshift is actually, it's Cloud-managed,
and it is column oriented,
and it's also an MPP database.
It's not the only product on the market which has these nice properties.
There are other products from other vendors and
Redshift is actually the champion of Amazon web service.
If you are working in Amazon,
that would be your go-to solution.